Akka Persistence (#262)
akka/akka-platform-guide: docs-source/docs/modules/concepts/pages/akka-persistence.adoc

include::partial$include.adoc[]

> Just like objects in OOP, actors keep their state in volatile memory. When a system shuts down (gracefully or because of a crash) all data that was in memory is lost. Persistence provides patterns to enable actors to persist events that lead to their current state. Upon startup, events can be replayed to restore the state of the entity hosted by the actor. The event stream can be queried and fed into additional processing pipelines (an external Big Data cluster for example) or alternate views (like reports).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like objects in OOP, actors keep their state in volatile memory. When a system shuts down (gracefully or because of a crash) all data that was in memory is lost. Akka Persistence provides the means to persist an Actor state using Event Sourcing. Upon startup, events can be replayed to restore the state of the entity hosted by the actor. The event stream can be queried and fed into additional processing pipelines (an external Big Data cluster for example) or alternate views (like reports).
```

Persistence tackles the following challenges:

* How to restore the state of an entity/actor when system restarts or crashes.
* How to ensure reliable delivery of messages in face of network errors and system crashes.
* How to introspect domain events that have led an entity to its current state.
* How to leverage xref:event-sourcing.adoc[] in your application to support long-running processes while the project continues to evolve.
* How to implement a xref:cqrs.adoc[CQRS] system.

== Persistence Plugins

Storage backends for journals and snapshot stores are pluggable in the Akka persistence extension. Plugins maintained within the Akka organization include plugins for Cassandra and JDBC databases.

NOTE: The xref:microservices-tutorial:index.adoc[Implementing Microservices with Akka tutorial] illustrates how to implement an Event Sourced CQRS application with Akka Persistence and the Akka Persistence Cassandra plugin.

> Learn more about Akka Persistence on the {akka}/typed/index-persistence.html[Akka docs (Persistence module)] {akka}/typed/index-persistence.html[{tab-icon}, window="tab"].

Reviewer 2: "Learn more" section?

Author: yeah, I'm doing them all.
